PEP 655: Motivation: Enables mixed key requiredness in the TypedDict alternative syntax (#2359)
python/peps: pep-0655.rst

       title: str
       year: NotRequired[int]

This PEP also makes it possible to define TypedDicts in the
:pep:`alternative functional syntax <589#alternative-syntax>`
with a mix of required and potentially-missing keys,
which is not currently possible at all because the alternative syntax does

> not support inheritance:
> 
> ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not support inheritance::
```

You can just do this, FYI

Author: Aye. I prefer keeping the code block element independent of the preceding paragraph element.

Such separation is also consistent with Pandoc's output, which I used to generate most of the RST syntax originally (from Markdown).

> :pep:`alternative syntax <589#alternative-syntax>`
> with a mix of required and potentially-missing keys,
> which is not currently possible at all because the alternative syntax does
> not support inheritance:
> 
> ::
> 
>    Actor = TypedDict('Actor', {
>        'name': str,
>        'in': NotRequired[List[str]],  # "in" is a keyword, so needs alternative syntax

Reviewer 2: I think "functional syntax" is clearer than "alternative syntax"

```suggestion
:pep:`alternative functional syntax <589#alternative-syntax>`
with a mix of required and potentially-missing keys,
which is not currently possible at all because the functional syntax does
not support inheritance:

::

   Actor = TypedDict('Actor', {
       'name': str,
       'in': NotRequired[List[str]],  # "in" is a keyword, so the functional syntax is necessary
```

Author: > I think "functional syntax" is clearer than "alternative syntax"

Agreed. However the term of art, as put forth in the earlier PEP 589, is ["alternative syntax"](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0589/#alternative-syntax), so I'm trying to remain consistent with it.

Thus I would advocate leaving the original wording for the most part. However I wouldn't mind changing the first mention in this paragraph from "alternative syntax" to "alternative functional syntax", leaving the other usages as-is. What do you think @AlexWaygood ?

Reviewer 2: Hah, I think I've been hanging out in the [CPython test suite](https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/375a56bd4015596c0cf44129c8842a1fe7199785/Lib/test/test_typing.py#L4534) too much recently. (I've also seen it described [elsewhere](https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/2492#issuecomment-309157987) as the "functional syntax").

> I wouldn't mind changing the first mention in this paragraph from "alternative syntax" to "alternative functional syntax", leaving the other usages as-is.

Consistency with the original PEP is good — let's go with this 👍

>        'in': NotRequired[List[str]],  # "in" is a keyword, so needs alternative syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       # "in" is a keyword, so the functional syntax is necessary
       'in': NotRequired[List[str]],
```

To avoid >79 character line length per PEP 8, you could do this...

   })

Rationale
=========

One might think it unusual to propose syntax that prioritizes marking

> *required* keys rather than syntax for marking *potentially-missing* keys, as is

Reviewer: Grammar/semantic issue—currently, due to the use of "prioritizes" between the "than" and the intended target, "syntax", this sentence is naively read as follows:

> One might think it unusual to propose syntax that prioritizes (marking *required* keys) rather than (syntax for marking *potentially-missing* keys), as is

when it appears, from the use of the otherwise semantically out of place "syntax for marking", it is intended to be read as (which may require a few readings to parse correctly):

> One might think it unusual to propose (syntax that prioritizes marking *required* keys) rather than (syntax for marking *potentially-missing* keys), as is

To fix this, I suggest going with the "prioritize" target and eliminating the redundant/repetitive "syntax for marking", which is simpler and more concise,

```suggestion
*required* keys rather than *potentially-missing* keys, as is
```
